---
title: "Create Pricing Plans"
---

Once you have defined your value [metrics](/metering/creating-metrics), it's
time to combine them to form a cohesive package that you can deliver to your
customers. In other words, let's create a plan! This is what the plan creation
page looks like:

![Plan Creation Page](/images/plan-management/create_plan-53a83aaa55da2a676ec6bc0025ed842f.png)

It might look like a lot, but let's break it down!

## Plan Information

![Plan Information Section](/images/plan-management/plan_info-18cd963ccb0993f03d011f221c6c3e82.png)

This section has metadata about your plan, including its name and description,
billing frequency information, and the flat subscription fee any customers on
this plan will pay per billing period. One of Lotus' core concepts is
[plan versioning](/plan-management/versioning), so keep in mind that when you
make new versions of the same plan, the only two things you can't change are the
plan name and the plan duration. Everything else is fair game!

Additionally, we know that you might have existing subscriptions associated with
a payment provider (such as [Stripe](/external-integrations/stripe)), so we
allow you to link this plan to any ID that represents a plan in your payment
provider. This is useful when you want to migrate your existing subscriptions to
Lotus.

For example, in Stripe, [Prices](https://stripe.com/docs/api/prices) and
[Products](https://stripe.com/docs/api/products) together specify what you might
consider a "plan" in Lotus, so if you had a product with id
`prod_MkU7Sl81DXLqyZ` in Stripe, you could link them together by adding it to
the `Link External ids` field. No subscriptions will be migrated until you
instruct us to do so, but this will allow you to keep track of which plans are
linked to which external ids.

## Plan Components

![Components Section](/images/plan-management/component-f5b44aa2b319b8418c9ba698b685ee4c.png)

Plan components associate metrics to your given plan, and include the price you
want to charge for them.

Charges are configured through tiers. This format can represent per-unit
pricing, packaged pricing, traditional tiered pricing, stair-step pricing, or
free pricing.

In addition, since you can set ranges, you can also dictate whether the metric
has a limit that the user cannot exceed, which can then be checked in your
[frontend](/subscription-lifecycle/managing-access)

Each tier can have a different type:

- flat
- per_unit
- free

### Tier Ranges

For continuous metrics, tier ranges are defined as \[start_1,end_1), (start_2,
end_2\], where the end is not inclusive.

For discrete metrics (that follow integers i.e the Count aggregation type), tier
ranges can be at most 1 integer apart from each other. An example of this would
be a tier that holds the range 0 -> 3 which will include 0, 1, 2, and 3\. Then
the next range can be 4 -> 100 which will start at 4 and go to 100.

## Features

![Features Section](/images/plan-management/feature-72d0da85a702bd716c20d3ccd357c25a.png)

Plan features are meant to represent boolean features that you want to enable
for your customers. For example, you might want to enable a feature like
"Advanced Reporting" for a customer on a certain plan. In the feature creation
screen, you must either choose the feature you want to associate with this plan
or create a new one. For more detail on how you can use plan features to enable
or disable certain features in your application, please refer to the
[managing feature access](/subscription-lifecycle/managing-access) guide.

## Discounts and Price Adjustments

![Price Adjustments Section](/images/plan-management/price_adjustments-f7c55490d82d6d1085c9c81bd3f3b2ff.png)

Price adjustments give you the flexibility to easily represent business events
such as sales, negotiated prices with large enterprises, or discounts for early
adopters. In the price adjustment creation screen, you must choose the type of
price adjustment you want to create, and then specify the amount of the
adjustment. Currently, we support the following types of price adjustments, all
at the plan level (coming to the component level soon!):

- **Percentage**: This is a percentage discount or surcharge that will be
  applied to the total price of the plan. For example, if you want to give a 10%
  off discount to all customers on this plan, you would specify a percentage
  of 10.
- **Fixed Amount**: This is a flat discount or surcharge that will be applied to
  the total price of the plan. For example, if you want to give a $200 discount
  to all customers on this plan, you would specify a flat amount of 200\. Keep
  in mind flat discounts will never give a credit to a customer, and will simply
  make the invoice 0.
